## mounts

Mounts has three different usage options: `path`, `persistent` and `sync`. They're used to configure which folders will be internalized to the container or persisted internally by `azk`.

#### path

```js
'INTERNAL_FOLDER': path('LOCAL_PATH'),
```

Mount the folder located in the current system machine `LOCAL_PATH`, relative to the Azkfile.js, to the path `INTERNAL_FOLDER` inside the system container. If any of the files are changed, from the user machine or from inside the container, the information is also updated on the other end.


#### persistent

```js
'INTERNAL_FOLDER': persistent('LOCAL_PATH'),
```

Persists the files that are inside the container on the path `INTERNAL_FOLDER`, to an `azk` persistent data folder in the user machine. The location the data will be saved will vary between Mac and Linux:

###### Mac

The folder is stored in a virtual disk (`~/.azk/data/vm/azk-agent.vmdk`) in the path `/azk/persistent_folders`. This disk is mounted in the path `/mnt/sda1` of the VM.

###### Linux

`~/.azk/data/persistent_folders/#{manifest.id}/LOCAL_PATH`.

Note that using the same 'LOCAL_PATH' in the same Azkfile.js, but in different systems, means that these systems will share the persisted data.

#### sync

```js
'INTERNAL_FOLDER': sync('LOCAL_PATH' [, OPTS]),
```

Syncs the files in `LOCAL_PATH` with a remote destination, which is mounted in the `INTERNAL_FOLDER`. Differently from `path` option, `sync` uses [rsync](https://rsync.samba.org/) instead of VirtualBox [shared folders](https://www.virtualbox.org/manual/ch04.html#sharedfolders). As result, the overall performance is significantly increased, mainly for applications which demand a great number of files (e.g. a Ruby on Rails application with a lot of assets).

##### OPTS (optional)

* `except`: an `Array` of files and/or folders to be ignored in the sync process. It uses [glob patterns](http://teaching.idallen.com/dat2330/06w/notes/glob_patterns.txt). Useful hints:
  * **Exclude a file**: `{except: ["./path/to/the/file.png"]}`
  * **Exclude a folder**: `{except: ["./path/to/the/folder/"]}` // *Mind the tailing slash!*
  * **Exclude all CSS files**: `{except: ["*.css"]}`

  > By default, `azk` ignores the following elements when syncing: `.syncignore`, `.gitignore`, `Azkfile.js`, `.azk/` and `.git/`.

* `daemon`: a `boolean` value that indicates if, when running `azk` in daemon mode (e.g. `azk start`), `azk` should either use or not use the `sync` scheme (in the negative case, the `path` scheme is used) (default: `true`);
* `shell`: similarly to `daemon` option, it's a `boolean` value that indicates if, when running `azk` in shell mode (e.g. `azk shell`), `azk` should either use or not use the `sync` scheme (in the negative case, the `path` scheme is used) (default: `false`). Setting as `false` is particularly useful to keep a two-way sync, allowing created files in the shell (e.g. via `$ rails generate scaffold User name:string`) to be persisted back in the original project folder;

##### Data persistency
When using `sync`, we need to ensure that the all data generated by [`provision`](/en/reference/azkfilejs/provision.html) will be persisted. To do this, we have to add to `mounts` a `persistent` entry with correspondent folder. Those folder may vary between languages and frameworks, but follow some examples:

* __Ruby/Rails__:
  ```js
  mounts: {
    '/azk/#{manifest.dir}'         : sync("."),
    '/azk/bundler'                 : persistent("bundler"),
    '/azk/#{manifest.dir}/tmp'     : persistent("tmp"),
    '/azk/#{manifest.dir}/.bundle' : path(".bundle"),
    '/azk/#{manifest.dir}/log'     : path("log"),
  },
  ```

* __Node.js__:
  ```js
  mounts: {
    '/azk/#{manifest.dir}' : sync('.'),
    '/azk/node_modules'    : persistent('node_modules'),
  },
  ```

##### Excluded folders
Since you use `sync` in a folder, `azk` starts to watch its files for any new change in order to re-sync the modified ones as soon as the change happens. As long as that folder has too many files, the CPU consumption can increase severally. The best way to avoid this is by telling `sync` to skip any folder which isn't absolutely required to make the system run. You can make this by any of the following ways:

* Using the `except` option for the `sync`, as listed above;
* Creating, inside the folder to be sync, a file named `.syncignore` which contains a list of files and folders to be skipped during the sync process (e.g. if you are using `sync(./MyProject)`, `azk` will look for the file `./MyProject/.syncignore`);
* If you don't have a `.syncignore` file, by default `azk` will ignore all the files and folders listed in the file `.gitignore` (inside the folder to be synced) during the sync process (e.g. analogously, if you are using `sync(./MyProject)`, `azk` will look for the file `./MyProject/.gitignore`).

##### Destination synced data

The destination path of the data that will be synced will vary between Mac and Linux:

###### Mac

The folder is stored in a virtual disk (`~/.azk/data/vm/azk-agent.vmdk`) in the path `/azk/sync_folders`. This disk is mounted in the path `/mnt/sda1` of the VM.

###### Linux

`~/.azk/data/sync_folders/#{manifest.id}/LOCAL_PATH`.

Note that using the same 'LOCAL_PATH' in the same Azkfile.js, but in different containers, will mean that they'll share the data.

> **IMPORTANT NOTE:** If you are facing performance issues using `azk` with your application, you should use this option when mounting your source code. Note it's a one-way sync, so you still have to add entries in `mounts` indicating which folders need to use the `share` option (using `path` or `persistent`).

### Examples

* __path__: Mount the current project folder (`'.'`) in the container on the path `/azk/azkdemo` (considering `azkdemo` is the name of the folder where the `Azkfile.js` is located).

  ```js
  mounts: {
    '/azk/#{manifest.dir}' : path('.'),
  },
  ```

* __persistent__: Persists the files within the container that are on the path `/azk/bundler`. The files, in this case, will be stored in the _guest machine_ inside the folder `~/.azk/data/persistent_folders/#{manifest.id}/`.

  ```js
  mounts: {
    '/azk/bundler' : persistent('bundler'),
  },
  ```

* __sync__: Syncs the project files within the container on the path `/azk/azkdemo` (considering `azkdemo` is the name of the folder where the `Azkfile.js` is located), excluding CSS files and `config` folder. Plus, use shared folders to `tmp` and `log`.

  ```js
  mounts: {
    '/azk/#{manifest.dir}'      : sync('.', except: ['*.css', 'config/']),
    '/azk/#{manifest.dir}/tmp'  : persistent('tmp/'),
    '/azk/#{manifest.dir}/log'  : persistent('log/'),
  },
  ```
